# 60_DAYS_OF_LEARNING


## DAY 1 - SSH

<h4>SSH or secure shell is a protocol.SSH is a way for machines to communicate with one another.</h4>

1) For example Hypertext Transfer Protocol allows you to send files over the internet.
just like HTTP SSH is another protocol that allows us to communicate
between two computers over the Internet.
2) It allows users to share files as well as control and modify remote computers over the internet.

3) It was created as a secure way of communication which again encrypts all data so bad actors can't monitor

4) A shell needs a certain protocol to enable data exchange or communication between two devices and not
just a browser and a server and that's why SSH is called secure shell protocol.

5) It's a protocol to use over shell and if you remember a shell unlike a browser allows you to talk to
the operating system yes you've used your command line before right.

6) The significant advantage offer by SSH over its predecessors is the use of encryption to ensure
secure transfer of information between host and the client.The host refers to the remote server you're trying to access while the client is the computer you're
using to access the host.
    
        ssh {user}@{host}
    <p><b>ssh -</b> SSH key command and instruct your system that you want to open an encrypted secure
          shell connection.</p>
    <p><b>user -</b> user represents the account you want to access.For example you may want to access the root user which is basically synonymous for system an administrator.</p>
    <p><b>host -</b> Host refers to the computer you want to access.</p>
    
7) Once you are enter into your ubuntu box . Run below commands
    
        ssh root@ip
        sudo apt-get install git // it will install git
        git clone repo
        sudo apt install curl
        curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_6.x | sudo bash -
        sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
        sudo apt-get install -y npm
        exit // to logout of the box
        
8) Sending local folder data to server
        
        cd folderName
        rsync -av . root@ip:~/destinationFolder eg rsync -av . root@167.99.146.57:~/destination
        ssh root@ip
        ls // it will show the folder with the data that you have copied
        
9) Rsync (Remote Sync) is a most commonly used command for copying and synchronizing files and directories remotely as well as locally in Linux/Unix systems.
    
        rsync options source destination
        
## DAY 2
### How SSH Works
  
  <h4>1) Symmetrical Encryption</h4>
     <p>symmetric encryption uses one secret key for both the encryption and decryption by both parties.And SSH communicates through this shared key. But if anyone hack this key he can decrypt the data. So, we need to secure this key using key exchange algorithm a secure way to exchange these keys. In this two computers share public pieces of data and then manipulate it to independently calculate the key</p>
  <h4> Asymmetrical Encryption</h4>
  <p>symmetrical encryption uses two separate keys(public and private) for encryption and decryption. Public you can share with anybody.Now these public keys are linked with the private key in terms of functionality. The private key cannot mathematically compute from the public key. The message encrypt by the public key is only decrypt by its own private key.</p>
  <p>Public key is generated by the Diffie Hellman key exchange method. So inshort we generate the symmetric key using asymmetrical encryption using the Diffie Hellman key exchange.</p>
  <p><h6>Diffie-Hellman</h6> It is an algorithm used to establish a shared secret between two parties. It is primarily used as a method of exchanging cryptography keys for use in symmetric encryption algorithms like AES. </p>
  <h4>Hashing</h4>
  <p>It is another form of cryptography used in secure shell connections.They simply generate a unique value of a fixed length for each input.</p>
  <p>Using a hash function each message that is transmitted must contain a something called Mac and this Mac is a hash generated from the symmetric key.The packet sequence number and the message contents that were sent.</p>  
   <p>let clientData = "abc"</p>
   <p>let symmetric key = 'xyz'</p>
   <p>after clientData + packet sequence number + symmetric key ---hashing---> "kjhkjkjlkj"</p>
    <p>Now host will having the same symmetric key + packet sequence number when they do hasing it generate the same hash code</p>
    
   <p>To genrate public and private key run below command</p>
        
        ssh-keygen -C "youremailid"
        pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_rsa_digitalocean.pub
        
        
        
## DAY 3

### Basic of authentication

##### 1. Traditional Way - Cookie/session based

<p>Cookies based authentication is stateful. It means that an authentication record or session should be kept both server and client side.</p>
<p>Server need to keep track of active sessions in database</p>

###### Basic flow is
<p>1) User login with their credentails</p>
<p>2)Server verify the user and create a session then stored in database and send the cookie back to client.</p>
<p>3)A cookie with session ID is get stored in users browser</p>
<p>4)On Every request the session ID is verified againt the DB and if valid request processed</p>
<p>5)Once the user logged out of the app, the session is destroyed both client and server side.</p>


##### 2. Morder Way - Token Based

<p>Token-based authentication is stateless. The server does not keep the record of which users are logged in or which JWTs have been issued.</p>
<p>Each request to the server is accompanied by a token which the server uses to verify the request</p>
<p>Token is generally sent as an additional Authorization header in form of Bearer(JWT).</p>

###### Basic flow is
<p>1- User login with their credentails</p>
<p>2- Server verifies the credentials if correct then returns a signed token</p>
<p>3- This token is stored in client-side, most commonly in local storage - but can be stored in session storage
or a cookie as well</p>
<p>4- Subsequent requests to the server include this token as an additional Authorization header. </p>
<p>5- The server decodes the JWT and if the token is valid processes the request</p>
<p>6- Once a user logs out, the token is destroyed client-side, no interaction with the server is necessary.</p>

##### Stateless Advantages
<p>1) Reduce memory usage - unlike session get saved in DB</p>
<p>2) Easier to support multiple server - unline in session based sync the session in multiple server is really tough</p>
<p>3) Reduce session expiration problems.</p>

###JSON web token (JWT)
<p>JWT is just a json object that has three main components.</p>
<p>It has header, a payload and a signature</p>
<p><b>Header - </b>It will describe the token and say something like this is the type of token that i am using in JWT</p>
<p><b>Signature - </b>It tell about the algorithm that are we using for singnature.</p>
<p><b>Payload - </b>It has multiple properties.like, sub - which is the subscriber or the user id, expiry date, issued date, information about user like name or this role.</p><p>Finally this is a way to enure the integrity of our JSON web token. All of those components are base64 encoded and combined as big string and passed as a header or a query parameter.<p>

<p>JWT.io commonly used to create or to debug web token</p>

   
